Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in the previous lecture we assigned values to a variable.
So just to refresh your memory this is the variable name.
And this is the value put in double quotes that we assign to it.
So we know what a variable is but what about the text under your side.
What about this text here we didn't double quote Tony storms.
Well this text is called a string.
And that string has nothing got to do with the string of your guitar string of your bow or any other
type of string.
Put her down a string.
Pite.
I'm going to use the term string and python we are referring to a string of characters.
So the main use of strings in Python is to represent bits of text like my name here.
You can use single or double quotes of it as we have done here around your strings.
So equally we could have done this
and this would still be valid and Titan would still run it within your program.
This flexibility also allows you to use quotes and apostrophes within your strings.
So let's say that we have a quote from a movie or something like that that we would like to put into
a string so we would open with double quotes and then our quote within that line would be single quotes.
So let's take a look at how that would look.
So let's start with our variable which is moving in or movie like we are going to sign a sign at the
value which starts with a double quote what then.
Is this sort of an opening a question mark.
And now we're going to put in the quote from a movie I'm going to start out with a single quote.
So here we go.
Show me the money.
So there we go.
And we close it again with a single quote.
And as you can see here we still have our double quote closing our overall string of text.
So like I said at the beginning this entire line is a string of text.
It opens with a double quote I want in a line.
We want to emphasize or emphasize or quote something.
So we have that opening with a single quote and closing with a single quote and an overall string of
text closes with a double quote.
So that works both ways.
We could have just as easily done this by take this out
and I take this out.
I can start on end this example with a single quote but what I need to do now is I need to just change
these around three double quotes
and just do that.
Now here we go double double and a single to wrap it up.
So Biden doesn't mind which one you use.
It allows for flexibility and discipline and this flexibility as we've just seen here allows you to
put.
And this is what in your quotes when you string of characters Let's take a look at another example.
If for some reason you don't like double quotes you can still use a single quote method but any single
quotes would in your string well need to be escaped with the backslash character.
And that goes like this.
So we have our variable start equals and we opened with a single quote and now we have the word.
Let's But we can't write that.
That's what we need to do.
Here is we need to escape this.
This single quote with a backslash like that's let's get started.
With Python.
And we end this with a single quote.
So as you can see here you can you can use single quotes to open and close your strings but if you're
going to use a single quote well inside you need to escape it with a backslash character.
So this has been a nice simple introduction into strings.
And the next lecture we're going to look at are ways to use strings.
What insight.
Thank you and I'll see you in the next lecture.